My name is Vladislav Tolkach, and
we will talk to you about management
accounting.
A few words about myself.
The main place of my work is the Controlling
Academy, a joint project of
the controller of the AG Academy
of Munich and the German School
of Business.
We have contact with Peter
Krovat, a well-known figure
in Germany who is also engaged
in controlling.
We have translated two of his books
into Russian, “Concept of
Controlling” and “Implementation
of a Balanced System of Indicators”.
The structure of our course on this slide.
First, we will talk about the location
of management accounting in the control
system, then compare the three
accounts that, as a rule, the
company has.
This is the tax that companies
conduct to provide information
to government agencies.
These are the financial ones that companies
run to provide information to the
capital market, banks, exchanges and so on.
And we'll talk about the management
accounting that companies keep for themselves
to understand what's really
happening in the business.
The next point of our course is key
performance indicators, so-called KPIs,
key performance indicators,
that is, these are the bulbs
that usually light on the plane
or manager if you compare the
manager to the pilot of
the aircraft.
Furthermore, management reports
are reports that we receive in
addition to indicators to understand
what is happening in
the business.
In tax and financial accounting, external
users are interested in the outcome
of the business as a whole, but in management
accounting we are interested in
the efficiency of the work of not only
the company as a whole, but
also individual structural units.
In the next paragraph we talk about the
financial structure, about the centers
of financial responsibility.
It is the structural unit of the
company responsible for one or another
part of the profit and loss report.
There are structural units that
are solely responsible for costs.
But since some structural
units, in addition to costs, also
generate income, structural units
are either designated as centers
of gross income or as centers
of profit.
In addition, within this point, a
very interesting topic is
domestic prices, or so-called
transfer prices.
This is the price at which
a product or service within
the company moves from one division
to another.
The next item of the program is
the accounting policy of management
accounting, that is, these are
the rules, principles, canons
that we must observe within
the company, verified by internal
audit, so that the figures
we can trust are obtained in
the reports.
The last item of the program
is the plan of management accounts.
The last point of the program
is some organizational aspects.
As part of this paragraph,
we will talk about how to organize
management accounting in the company,
who it is most concerned, who
in the smaller, how different
structural units are
involved in this process and
can how it eventually connects
with each other and how it
ends up being used blindly
on the table.
Management accounting as a system
is part of an integrated
concept called controlling
in Germany.
And what it is, I will try
to explain to you by an example
of how two people, husband
and wife, go on holiday.
Imagine that before going on vacation,
a husband asks his wife, dear,
what goals we set before us
when going on vacation.
My wife says to rest.
And the husband, more skilled in the field
of control, says the wife, the goal
is not formulated quite
correctly, the goal should
be measurable.
So, the goal is
to rest at 100%.
So the goal of these two people
who go on vacation is to rest at
100%, and this is the scale by which
they will monitor the degree of
rest during the vacation
– 25%, 50%, 75% of the degree So, control
starts with the setting of a goal,
with the development of some
measurable goals, and the second
stage – is the allocation of the
budget, the allocation of those
resources that are necessary
for us to the goals.
So, the husband asks his
wife, somehow you think how much
money we will need to
rest at 100%.
My wife says, I think that
3500 euros for two is more or
less real.
The husband agrees they write this amount
of 3500 euros for two and for now it
is only a prediction of how much
not in the holiday will spend but to
turn it into a budget the husband takes
a needle and pierces his wife's finger
with a needle, so the signed
blood forecast turns into
a budget of 3500 euros for two and
the goal is to rest at 100%.
After that, management accounting
begins, that is, the collection
of information on the fact.
Information is collected in fact
during the control cuts.
The husband makes the first check-
in cut after 3 days of vacation.
He makes the first check-in
and asks his wife how restful
you are at the moment.
My wife says that the feelings
are strange enough, only 3 days
in vacation, and already 80
percent, I feel rested.
And my husband says, you know,
I have the same feelings,
I also feel 80 percent rested.
We can draw a line like this,
this is how the resting curve behaves.
By the end of the third day, the rate
of achieving the goal is 80%.
The husband has a laptop, flash drive,
exel with him on vacation, and he
records exactly the amount spent,
how much they spent on restaurants,
how much they spent on
some other items.
And by the end of the third
day the amount is not very
large - 200 euros.
I remember what was initially discussed in the
figure of 3,500 euros for the entire period
and the goal is to rest at 100%.
My husband has an interesting idea.
He recalls the “20 to 80” principle
and says, “Woman, what's the point?
We have to spend another week and a
half and spend 3,300 euros if we have
already achieved the 80% of the goal we wanted.
Go home to home.
My wife says we wanted to rest
at 100%, so I think we should
stay and push out the
remaining 20%.
The husband agrees, and the
second check cut he makes at the end
of the first week, continuing
to accumulate actual information,
that is, essentially engaging
in management By the end of the
first week the actual rest rate
of both holidaymakers is,
say, 85%, it continued to
grow and was 85% by the end
of the first week.
We look into a document called “Accounting
for the Execution of the Budget”
and in this document we find
a number that is quite large,
it is 3 thousand euros already.
By the end of the first week, 3 thousand
euros were spent out of a total of 3 500.
The husband again offers to go
home, because a very even
good result, 85%, already
spent a lot of money.
In his view, it makes no
sense to be on vacation for another
whole week, for the remaining
15% to rest, that is, it spends
3,500.
My wife says no, we wanted
to rest at 100%, so I
suggest staying.
But, objectively evaluating the situation,
I see that we cannot afford the
remaining 15% for the remaining 500 euros.
When we planned with you,
we didn't know that in England,
they went on vacation, such
expensive football tickets, such
expensive restaurants and all
museums paid.
We assumed that this was expensive,
but thank God my husband had
a reserve fund with him, and
the newly adjusted
newly approved budget value
looks like this.
Let's say 4 thousand euros, not in addition
to that sum of 3,500, but only 4
thousand, that is, 500 he added
from the reserve fund.
The third check-up took place three
days later.
The rest rate is 92%,
the actual amount
spent at this time,
say, 3550 euros.
The husband has not asked for home, he
decided that we will be to the end,
we will strive for the 100% achievement
of the goals, and we will not re-
examine the budget again.
And the last fourth job
is done by these two people
after they return home.
This is the last fourth
check.
It turns out that the degree of rest
when they are the actual
amount spent was 3830 euros.
In fact, the money spent is
the actual degree of rest.
We aimed at 100%, the original
budget was 3500 euros, the
adjusted budget was
4 thousand euros, but in fact
we spent 3830, controlling
as a function suggests
that we compare the actual
degree of achievement with
the plan and discuss why
we still failed to rest 100%.
98,5 percent is a good result, but
still not 100%.
And the second thing we compare is the
money actually spent with the plan,
with the budget.
We had two budgets, we discussed
the deviations from that amount, from
the first one that was signed with
blood, when we did not know that
restaurants were so expensive in England.
We must compare this with the
second value, with the adjusted
budget value too, in order to discuss
the deviations.
The combination of these four actions
- targeting, budgeting, control cuts,
gathering information on the
fact and identifying flights
at the end, the fourth action,
In the German and German
business environments, the Anglo-
Saxon term is usually called control.
Management accounting is part of
the control system.
We've seen that this is the part where
we actually collect information about
the actual degree of achievement
of goals and how the budget is executed.
Within the framework of this program
we will not talk about targeting, we
will not talk about budgeting, we
will not talk about the selection
of flights, but we will talk about
management accounting, about how the
company collects financial
and economic information about
the achieved results in
the range of structural units.
Ideally, if there is a control in
the company, then at 3 a.m. the
waking chief logistics officer
reads the poem by the mouth.
The first part of the poem is the
main logistics officer in knowledge of
what the goals of the business in which he
works, the business in general, where the
business moves, what will be with
the business about a year in three.
The second part of the silence is
information about what the logistics
department's goals are headed
by the head.
The objectives of the business as a whole
and the objectives of the structural unit.
and further.
Ideally, the chief logistics officer
lives in a budget signed with
blood, and the company has such
a small evil creature that makes
not very pleasant for the chief
logistics visits, performing
control cuts that can be
planned or not planned.
By making these check-ins, this
little evil creature asks
what you have at the moment, on
the 27th, with achieving goals
and with budget execution.
What you are going to do in the
days left until the end of the month
or quarter, so that you still aim
to give out those that we agreed with
you before the beginning of this
period in the budget to fit.
You know there are two bad situations.
One very bad, one very good.
The structural unit issued on the
Garate objectives that indications
were agreed but did not fit
into the budget.
The budget and structural
unit fit, but the goal was
not achieved.
Very bad situation - the goals of
the uninsured budget did not fit.
But the best we strive for
is to implement controlling,
so that the structural business
units the goals that were
agreed with them
and fit in the budget.
This is an ideal situation.
So, we'll talk about accumulating
actual information and
what management accounting
differs from the two others
that a company can
be.
From the tax accounting that we
carry out to serve the desired
state, and from the financial
accounting that we can do to look
for cheap money in banks
or on exchanges, that is, in
the capital market.
I usually draw management accounting
in the form of a triangle that
has some foundation and a top.
Why this figure?
Because when information in
the company is accumulated,
processed, generalized,
aggregated, then at the output
at the top we have about this
small sheet of paper with
three, four, maybe five key
indicators, by which we monitor
our business.
On the tip of this triangle,
you can place this paper
with four key indicators.
We can get much more detailed and
additional details from here
from the triangle, deepening
down there, but in the
large part we have everything that
happens in the company,
should be reduced to 3-4 target
values, by which we can make
our business a preliminary
diagnosis.
We can make the final diagnosis
by looking at a wider list of indicators,
but the primary, approximate
diagnosis can be made by looking
at 3-4 key indicators, which
is an iceberg that floats
in the ocean, and, as far as
I know, only 9% of the
iceberg is above water and
91% under water.
Financial indicators usually pop
up to the surface.
This is profit, revenue,
cash flow, profitability on
invested capital, value.
And that's usually what brings the
manager to the table.
But this is only the surface of the
iceberg, and it is not always
the manager who understands why
such a good or such a bad profit,
why such a good or such a
bad value of the profitability
of the imposed capital have brought
us to understand this duck
that floats on the surface.
That is, it is a colleague
who collects this information
in the company for the manager,
should dive underwater and see
what is happening here, and
maybe even deepen below, yes,
pick up the so-called non-
value, not financial indicators.
This can be the marriage share,
it can be the average time
of order execution, it can be the customer'
s double-value index, it can
be the flow of personnel.
In general, all this in one
or another degree contributes
to the fact that we have a good
or not good profit, a large
or small cash flow, a good
or low profitability
on the invested capital.
Not financial data,
not financial data.
This is usually the part underwater,
but it is very important because we
need to understand the mechanism
of forming financial quantities,
and accordingly the duck should
periodically dive and watch what
is happening there.
So, management accounting we draw
in the form of a triangle, but it
is important to understand that
in each company there are at least
two triangles, in which financial
and economic
information can accumulate.
One triangle is the triangle
that we build to serve the
needs of the state, and
it is called tax accounting,
or tax accounting in
English.
And the second is the
most managerial one that we lead
for ourselves, in order to understand
what is actually happening in
our company.
These two triangles, as you can
see in this slide, have some area
of intersection.
It can be greater
or less.
It is clear only that there
is always a crossroads area,
at least the company's management
is interested in what we
paid state taxes, what fines
and how the money moved
on the bill and on the cash.
This is the minimum we will
take from the tax account.
On this diagram you see that
triangles have a fairly large
area of intersection, which means
that enough of the information
hanging in the accounting, in the
tax accounting, falls into the
management accounting triangle.
It is a black area below,
the foundation of triangles.
However, the company has a blue
area, these are those objects,
information about which is only
by the internal user
and does not fall into the so-
called tax accounting, which
we send to the state.
But these are not necessarily the notorious
grey things, they can be so-called
implicit costs that we count
in management accounting
and that we do not count, sending
something with whites and
losses to the state.
For example, the company that
produces furniture has two production.
One of them is in the area
of own buildings, which
once bought owners.
And the second production, it is essentially
similarly located in a small town
30 kilometers from Kolceva,
where the same is about the
area of the angar, but it is rented.
We rent it, it is not in the
property, and there with the rent everything
is quite clear.
It is included in the report of profits
and losses as costs, in the
report of cash flow as payment.
But let's go back to the first
hangar that is owned by the company.
The company's financial director
believes that for this hangar,
which is owned by the company,
it is necessary to consider
the so-called implicit lease.
The amount we would have paid if
this property had not been in
our possession.
On such canons is based management
accounting, stating that
if we do, we do not deceive
ourselves.
After all, we can do this
to the hiring management that
in this hangar If this hiring
management is motivated by
profit on that hangar, it would
be logical to calculate
that profit so that it
is less.
Put them in the profit and loss
report this most implicit lease,
because at any time the
owners can say, “Boys, we
take this hangar, we need it for
other purposes, and you will
have to continue to produce the
chairs, but already in the
rented hangar, so be ready
for this right now.
The so-called implicit rental is
a very popular article on cost
in management accounting.
There is no such article in the tax.
Or, if we talk about the
so-called management balance.
It can hang something intangible,
it can be our software product
or our website or our brand
or some built in the
company management
systems or customer
base.
In general, this is all not to be felt, and
to the fact that it is not to be felt,
tax accounting is traditionally treated
very conservatively, not including it
in the balance sheet.
And in management accounting, no
one forbids us to do so if we
believe that it is actually
our assets.
We approximately know how much they
cost, and accordingly they can hang
in the management balance sheet,
it's again a blue area.
I think there is a red
area in many companies,
not in all, but some
companies do.
Red area is those objects that hang
exclusively in accounting,
in tax accounting, which fall
into external reporting,
which is sent to external users
of the state, but which does not
fall into the triangle
of management accounting.
I think that this can include,
for example, hopeless debit debt,
which we in the management accounting
can hang for a while, because
the legislation does not
allow us to forget this,
not to remove from the
balance sheet.
As for the black region, there are
the same objects, but not the fact
that the shameful interpretation
of these objects in the two triangles
is the same.
For example, there may be
some computer that is in the tax
accounting for the state hanging
at one price at the moment,
because it is depreciated
there for quite many years.
And in management accounting, we
have differently constructed
the depreciation policy, so the computer
will hang for a specific moment
at a different price in the management
balance sheet.
It is the same computer.
Or a board in the warehouse, the
pine is on the warehouse of the board,
which we use to make an example
of a window.
There is a high probability that
the same board in these two accounts
will hang at a different price,
because in the tax account we hanged
it at the purchase price,
and in the management at the
purchase price plus the
regular logistics costs that
we regularly leave at the customs
and transportation that we carry
out to bring this board
to the warehouse.
Irregular things, extraordinary fines,
they may not fall together with this
board into the balance sheet, but relate
to the expenses of the period.
But regular logistics costs can be
hanged together with the price of the
purchase of the board in the balance
sheet in the management accounting.
The consumption rates of the board
may differ in two accounts.
In tax accounting, we use norms
officially approved, written
with that calculation, to pay
as little tax as possible.
And in management accounting,
we can have a much stricter consumption
of the board, we are guided
by them to evaluate the
board in management accounting.
The third point is why the board can
hang at different prices.
The so-called unfacted deliveries
are resources that are in our
warehouse, but for which we
do not have all the necessary
documents to get it into the
tax account.
Usually, there are strict requirements
in the tax accounting, according
to which next to the board must
be a paper on which 14 seals and
8 signatures stand, and only after
that the accountant can hang it in
the balance sheet.
In management accounting, the principle
of priority of the substance over
the form works, the substance
is more important than the form, if
the board is physically, but not all
the papers necessary to hang it
in balance, it must still
be in the management balance.
The fourth reason why the same
board can hang in two accounts at
different prices is the loss
of that board part or fully useful
properties in the process
of storage.
The board stored in the warehouse
can bleed and deform during storage.
And it is not the fact that
we can make it the windows
we wanted to make.
Therefore, part of the boards can
be valued in the management accounting
during the inventory and can be
recorded not at the purchase
price, but at the price of possible implementation,
which may be lower than the
price at which they were purchased.
That is, the board, it is in the black
field, it hangs in both accounts,
just in one, in the green tax account
it hangs at one price at the moment,
and in the management
account at another.
Next, in addition to the
management tax accounting, on this
slide they are painted in green
and grey, the company has
a third account, the so-called
financial, yellow color
is marked.
This accounting is usually conducted
by companies according to the
requirements of the International
Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS), this accounting is usually
conducted in order to be able
to take not very from 2001-2005
in Europe a mandatory requirement
for public companies, that
is, for companies that have
shares circulating on the
stock markets, is the reporting
of IFRS, according to international
financial reporting
standards.
Banks have recently made
such demands.
If you want cheap money, please make
a balance sheet of the profit
and loss report and the cash
flow report, in accordance
with the requirements of IFRS,
International Financial Reporting
Standards.
Accordingly, the company
has another headache, and
the need to do a third account,
which has some area of intersection
with both tax and management.
As a rule, financial and managerial
are quite close, but the concepts
of "exchange costs" or "conditional
rental" in financial
accounting may not be fixed.
This is a specificity of
management accounting.
Therefore, I cannot say that financial
and management accounts are completely
matched.
All three accounts have a balance
sheet of the profit and loss
report and a cash flow report, but
the figures in these three documents
may not coincide at any time
or for a certain period.
Because of the so-called accounting
policies.
Accounting policies are rules, principles,
canons, which we consecrately observe
in order to obtain certain
figures in the reports at the
output.
And since the rules in the three accounts
can be different, the numbers can
also be different.
The next moment.
We have already said that
using only financial economic
information, i.e. the balance
sheet, the report on profits
and losses and the report
on cash flow is not enough,
because this information
is usually delayed and
does not reflect all
the problems and achievements
of the business.
We will, of course, get the
financial indicators from
the management accounting, but most
likely the company will
have to build a wider
triangle, which you see on this
slide.
It is called a management
information system.
That is, management accounting
is a part of a more global management
information system, which
in addition to financial figures
obtained from management
accounting, also includes
not financial figures,
not financial indicators.
To build this system is very convenient
to use the method that was
proposed by Robert Kaplan, an American.
This method is called a balanced scorecard.
In Russian translated as a balanced
system of indicators, within
this methodology we develop
a system of financial and economic
indicators, that is,
the final indicators of
our business, this is profit,
profit on invested capital,
cash flow, revenue, business
value, what pops up on
the surface in the
iceberg, at the top, at
the tip.
If we go down below, we will need
indicators that inform us
about the satisfaction
of our customers' loyalty, this
can be the index of customer
approval, the number of complaints,
the volume of re-sales.
The volume of re-sales is a figure
obtained from management
accounting, that is, the information
is value.
But the number of complaints and
the index of customer approval is not
valuable information, it hangs on the
balance sheet.
It is part of a wider triangle.
Going even deeper, we move to the
Business Process section, where
we monitor each process in our
business through the cost and
quality time triangle.
The cost of the process is again
information valuable.
Again, we take it from
the management account, how much
is blown into each process.
But the time of the process, as
well as the quality of each process,
is not valuable information, it
is necessary with a broader pyramid.
Approaching the very foundation,
we work in the project of the infrastructure
staff, trying to measure the
state of our staff and infrastructure.
Personnel, if measured, you
can use value indicators, average
wage per company compared
to market, or the index of
outstanding personnel,
flow of personnel, average ballt
by professional certification
results, these are
all non-value indicators
that we get from a wider
pyramid.
As for infrastructure, this
can be the degree of
capacity depletion, the state
of the software product
hardware, the state of our
buildings, which we use to
perform certain processes.
In general, we need a fairly
broad, comprehensive management
information system, in which
we consider both financial and
non-financial indicators.
A small example on this subject.
The company has a network
of own stores where it
sells clothes and shoes.
The management information system in
the company is built on the logic
of the balance sheet scorecard,
on the logic of balanced you
can see on this slide.
In this system, everything
starts with a goal, and the indicators
we use to monitor our business
are largely dependent on
what goals we set for
the business.
Let's say that a business has
a goal like increasing profits.
A standard target for any
company.
The company uses the net profit
indicator.
We see that it comes from the
management accounting system, and
the periodicity of monitoring values is quarterly.
The second goal, also quite
typical for many companies, is
to increase customer satisfaction.
It is monitored through two
indicators, it is the customer
satisfaction index and the number of
complaints of positive feedback
from customers.
Customer satisfaction index is calculated
on the basis of customer surveys
in stores, customers are given a
questionnaire on a 10-point scale and
the company asks, dear customers,
give us a score on a 10-point scale
here is this, give us a score
for this, give us a score for
this and for this.
In the latest survey, evaluate us
against our competitors.
If you go to our competitors sometimes,
how do we look at our
competitors?
Give us a ball for that.
Draw the points you bet
on our competitors.
To the satisfaction of customers.
This is a number on a scale from 1 to 10.
The company does this once every six months.
The second indicator for this purpose
is the number of complaints
or positive feedback from customers
who come to the stores.
There is a book of reviews in the store, and
you can get it from there without any problems.
Once a month, the company does.
The next goal is to increase the
efficiency of the work of the stores,
monitor the number of violations
of the corporate standard
of the work of the store.
The company has such a thick booklet,
called "Standard of the store work",
in which everything is described
in very detail, up to the appearance
of the sellers, on the eighth
page detailed the jewelry of
the seller's nails.
This is verified by the Secret
Buyer system.
There is such a method
of "Mr. Shopping", when a sent-in cosacks
comes to the store and records
a violation of the standard of
work in the store.
They will be whatever.
The standard can be written that
it is strictly forbidden to proceed
with the cleaning of the store until
the last customer has left it.
If the store is open until 22:00 and at 21.
59 the customer has entered the store, then
the faces of the sellers should not
be crushed, checks will be made.
They are strictly forbidden
to start cleaning the store until the
customer has left it.
All this can be checked by
ministry shopping, secret buyers,
components are made once every six
months.
We go down.
The goal for personnel is to improve
the qualification of staff, a fairly
standard goal and to increase
the satisfaction of staff.
Here we use the following relative
qualification indicators
average score by results, accordingly,
the certification procedure
once every six months.
To measure the satisfaction
of the staff, we
use two values.
Again, the satisfaction index through
the request, through the questionnaire once
every six months and the indicator
of staff flow.
It is obtained from the so-called process
accounting journal, the source of
information, also the half-year indicator.
In this slide we see that management
accounting as a system of information
collection of all
information needs of
management to meet is not able.
That is, it is a rather narrow
triangle, from which we take
profit, costs, revenue, assets,
liabilities, equity, money
movement, the profitability
of imposed capital.
In general, what can be taken from
the balance sheet is a report on profits
and losses and a report on cash flow.
But the manager needs additional,
non-value information that
we can take from customer surveys
or staff surveys, from the secret
buyer system, the certification
system, and so on.
So, we said that companies that operate
in the capital market will
have three accounts.
One for the state, one for itself
and one for the capital market, it
is usually called financial
accounting, we conduct it in accordance
with the requirements of international
financial reporting standards,
which are developed by the
committee located in the
city of London.
We can compare these three triangles
by a fairly long list of criteria
and come to the conclusion that
everything is very different.
These are different goals,
different users, different objects, and so on.
Let us go through each aspect,
discussing what will be in these
cells here, here and here.
If we compare these three accounts with
respect to the purposes for which we keep
them.
Tax accounting we usually keep in order
not to be closed as a business,
this is a mandatory requirement.
The state in any country in the world
wants to know something about business,
writes regulations that our accountant
must observe, entering the
so-called tax accounting.
The main purpose of financial accounting,
which we conduct in accordance with the
requirements of IFRS, the committee
is located in the City of London, is
the desire to obtain cheap money in
the capital market.
The main goal of introducing
management accounting is to understand
what is actually happening in the
business, and we are developing
these rules for ourselves.
A lot of good things can be taken
from here.
Of the IFRS standards, many companies
simply read the IFRS booklet in
order to take quotes from there
and insert it into the management
accounting policy.
It is a very good foundation, a very
good foundation.
It needs to be finalised, of course,
to adapt to your business, but in principle,
a book on international standards
on your reporting is a very good
basis for describing the
accounting policy of management
accounting.
The main purpose of this accounting
is to obtain money in the external
environment, either in the loan
market or in the equity market.
The main purpose of management accounting
is to understand what is happening
in the company.
Users can differ, here users
are the state, here users
are investors, potential or active,
and this is the management of
the company, top management,
mid-management, line management,
in general, employees
of the company, who to some
extent want to understand
what is happening
in their business and
make some management decisions.
The third aspect is the objects of accounting.
In a large cage, the objects are the same.
In all three accounts there are
such concepts as assets, liabilities
and equity.
That is what hangs in balance.
In all three accounts there are income, expenses,
and profits.
This is what hangs in the profit
and loss report.
And in all three accounts there
are incomes, payments and the difference
between them cash flow.
This is due to the account
of cash movement.
But it is in a large cage, in a smaller
there are nuances.
I have already said that in management
accounting there is such a thing
as an implicit cost.
For example, this is a virtual rental.
or in many companies like to calculate
the salary of the founder,
that is, the founder should
not work, he gave money and expects
some percentage on the invested
capital.
If he also comes to the office occasionally
and helps the hiring management
to develop, for example, a
business strategy, he is not obliged
to do so.
What happens in the management accounting?
In management accounting,
it is charged, not necessarily
paid, but the wage is charged,
which in the report on profits and
losses reduces the profit from
which motivates the hiring
management.
How much do we charge salary?
About the amount that would be
paid to an employed person, a
consulate company, in this market,
where we operate at some average
market price, we consider the
salary in the stock.
This is called an inexplicable cost.
Assets as an object of accounting.
In recent years, a lot has been
said about the knowledge economy, the
importance of intangible assets for
business.
There are many companies in which
almost all assets are intangible.
Well, imagine an IT company, in this business,
in addition to desks and computers,
we have more brains.
It is very difficult to hang 3-4 tons of brains
in balance.
All major assets are essentially
leaving their jobs at
6 p.m.
If tomorrow morning at 9 am they do not
appear at work, then the company manager,
except for the back tables and back
computers in the office, has nothing
left.
But it is very difficult to hang the
brains in balance, these are intangible
assets, human competences, skills,
know-how.
But this is an important issue,
and the management accounting is trying to
solve it too.
It is clear that some
intangible assets can hang
a little in tax accounting,
can hang a little in financial,
but in the management list
of intangible assets can
be much wider.
So in a large cell the list of objects
of accounting coincides, and in a small
one - not.
Principles of accounting.
The principles of accounting in tax accounting
are prescribed in numerous regulatory
acts.
Financial Accounting is the International
Financial Reporting
Standard.
In the management accounting is written
the so-called accounting policy.
We have already said that international
standards can serve as a very
good basis for writing management
accounting policies, but these
principles and rules may
differ slightly.
When we talk about the balance of management,
for example, we will say that.
If the principles and rules
for accounting debt in these
three accounts differ, the
figure of debt will also
differ.
If the principles of the accounting
rules of the assets in all three
accounts may differ slightly, then
the figures in all three accounts
will differ.
One well-known German automobile
company has profits in two
accounts, according to German
national standards, and
in the U.S. standards.
The GAAP was different in 1992
by 1 billion then-German marks,
as I know, because the principles
and rules of calculating
profits in the two accounts differed.
The same company with the same equipment,
with the same people, with stock
of finished products
in stock and so on.
The cost assessment of the work
was different.
In one account the profit X, in another account
the profit Y, and the profit delta
of a billion marks.
This is well-known by the American
financier Alfa Rapaport.
He said that profit is opinion, cash
is fact, profit is opinion, money
is fact, having in mind that the
principles of calculating
cash flow in all three accounts
are the same.
Money came for bills to the cash, got
money from the billing account and the
cash, it is very difficult to chemise.
And in principle, the distinction of
cash flow in the white company in
all three accounts should coincide.
But profit is not a fact, because the principles
of the rule of calculation of profit here
are one, here are others, here is a third.
With one reserve, you can
come up with a lot, and only because
of the reserves, the profit in
all three accounts can differ.
The second reason is, for example, amortization.
In one account we amortise
the building for x years, in another
in the third Z years, and, accordingly,
the profit went to one account,
in another another, in the third third.
Accuracy and speed are the following
criteria.
I will probably start
with management accounting, with an
example of an international company
and a description of how the financial
and economic information flows
in that company.
This international company has a representative
office in Kiev, and this representative
office is dropping its figures
to Berlin.
In Berlin, consolidation is
being carried out in Germany and throughout
Eastern Europe.
After that, Berlin drops information
to Paris, where its headquarters is
located for Europe, and in Paris,
consolidation is carried out across
Europe.
After that, the numbers are thrown across
the ocean to the city of New York, where
the company's headquarters is located,
where all the streams are aiming.
In New York, the authors of the
management accounting and reporting
policy wrote the number 5 and rounded
it into a frame.
This means that the figures for February
2008 in New York should be on the
table on March 5.
Berlin, the intermediate link in
the chain for the Kievans, for the Kiev
colleagues who throw information
to Berlin, wrote the number 2 and wrapped
it into a frame.
The figures about how Kiev worked
out should be in Berlin to the
second number, so that Berlin
could reduce everything in
Germany, in Eastern Europe, process,
send to Paris, and then it will
go to New York to the fifth
number.
Accordingly, no matter how quickly Kiev
knocked on the keyboard with the
fingers, it physically has no opportunity
to send simultaneously accurate and
operational information to the second
number.
Therefore, the management
report that leaves Kiev to
Berlin contains a very large
percentage of the case fact.
But in New York, they decided that
approximate information about the fifth
number is more important to us than absolute
accuracy about the twenty-fifth.
Absolute accuracy then reaches the
25-26th when it puts the known final,
but approximate fact, the example
fact should be to the fifth number,
and this is the specificity
of management accounting.
Often, speed is more important than accuracy.
Precision will be later, it will be,
it will be, but speed is sometimes more
important.
As for detail.
As a rule, management accounting is the
most detailed of all three, and tax
and financial in large part interests
us business as a whole, and in management
accounting we are interested not
only business as a whole, but
also pieces of business.
It could be a product portfolio.
In management accounting, you can
be interested in the structure of
revenue on products, on customers, on
sales channels, on sales markets, on
sales department employees.
Maybe a lot of cuts.
We may be interested in the management
accounting of the debiot's
position, very detailed.
Debit liabilities are in the balance sheet
and in the management accounting.
In addition, this total number
is accompanied by a long
large plate that details
who owes us, when to give,
what percentage of hopeless
or questionable debt.
In management accounting there
is a phenomenon, as centers of financial
responsibility, these are structural
units of business.
We are trying to assess
the economic efficiency of
each of them.
In general, management accounting is the
most detailed system of the three.
The currency.
As for currency, we need to talk about
the currency of the operational
daily accounting and the currency
of the reporting.
Reporting is usually a product
for a long period, six months
or a year.
The currency of the annual report and the currency
of the operational accounting may not coincide.
Typically, the currency used as
the currency in which the company carries
out most of its operations is used
as the currency of operational accounting.
If most transactions are in
rubles, the currency of accounting
will be rubles.
It is less time-consuming than every
day to convert everything into some
other currency, such as the euro
or the US dollar.
But the currency of reporting for
a long period may be different.
Let's look at one example in
the next slide.
This slide shows the dynamics of the profit
of the same company for the period of
99 and 2007 in three different currencies.
Let's say that one currency is the ruble,
one currency is the dollar, one
currency is the euro.
I will not specify what color
each currency, in principle,
can be guessed.
You can see
that in 2007, the profit in green currency
was just fine, the profit in red
currency was very bad, and the
profit, if you count it
in blue currency, was average.
The company wants to have a sufficiently
solid money sign in which it could
inform its managers or shareholders
about profitability over a long
period of time, for example from
99 to 2007, well and finds a very
interesting solution to make a basket,
such a conditional money sign,
an artificial poppy consisting
of three currencies at the
same time, in the image
and likeness of the euro, the euro
is in principle also a basket
that at one time was formed from
the German brand, the French
"Franco", the Italian "Lira",
the Spanish "Piseto" and so on.
The question of weight.
The company decided that 0.3-0.3-0.4 will
be the weight of each currency, and that
basket will be rubles, euros and dollars.
This currency can be called anyway,
but usually companies take the first
three letters from their own and get
the name of the currency.
It is artificial.
As an option, the basket can
consist of four currencies.
For example, the dollar, the
euro, the Swiss franc and the English pound.
Swiss franc, English pound -
quite stable currencies,
they can add to our artificial
Something similar does
companies that make
management reports
not in cash, but in natural
units.
The most exotic currency
of management reporting I've
ever encountered is called
the Dalmatian pup.
The company's shareholders asked
the financial director to draw up
the board's accounts in the
Dalmatian puppies, moving the
usual money stamps into this
artificial equivalent.
Why the Dalmatian puppies?
I have a suspicion that shareholders
just love this breed, although I am willing
to argue about the feasibility
of using this currency because the
fashion of the breed can change,
and accordingly the price
of the breed depends somewhat on
the fashion, and therefore it may
not be a very successful equivalent.
But students traditionally converted
their scholarships into liters of
vodka and liters of beer, assessing
their purchasing power.
In principle, the company can also
convert its profit, revenue in square
meters of housing, in glasses of beer
"Ginness", in puppies
"Dalmatian" or in for the profit
earned in 2001 and for the profit
earned in 2006.
I hope that the idea with these
artificial currencies is understandable
to you and in principle quite
simple here.
We are trying to come up
with some stable, stable equivalence
enough to compare our 2007
profit to the 2000
profit.
This is the specificity of management accounting.
These kinds of games with currencies
can be here.
A few words about currency
and management reports again.
There is a person who is thinking
about the feasibility of entering
an MBA program in one business school.
He had this idea in 2001
when it cost $7,000 at
this business school.
But he eventually went on an MBA
in 2007 and paid $17,000 for
his studies.
It's about the same program,
the same subjects, the same speakers,
well there they've been 6 years
old, but in principle it'
s the same program.
And this person claims that in this business
school the MBE program has not been expensive,
but has been lower.
He explains this in the following way.
He says that in 2001, business
school employees, having sold
the MBE program for 7,000, could
go to the Irish Pub and drink
5 full glasses of delicious
Guinness beer at 0.5.
And in 2007, the same people,
going to the same Irish Pub, selling
their MBA for $17,000, could afford
to drink 4 full-fledged glasses
of Guinness beer and a small
glass of 0.25, but not more.
And so, if you evaluate in the
Guinness, the MBA is cheaper.
In macroeconomics, there is the
Big Mac index, which informs us
about how much Big Mac can eat on
their wages Hungarians, Italians,
Finns, Japanese, Venezuelans,
and so on.
Something similar we see in trying
or trying to use Dalmatian
puppies as currency and
management reporting.
The next criterion by which we can compare
the Three Accounts is the account
plan.
You probably know that in 1494,
an Italian monk, his name was Luca
Pacholi, invented a system
of double recording.
The system of accounts, called the
double record system.
That is, if you explain it in a simple
example, in a monastery can be stored
in a warehouse honey.
In the beginning of February there
were so many liters of honey, during
February we bought or obtained some
amount of honey, during February
some amount of honey, so to
speak, consumed or sold, and finally
in February some residues remain.
The honey that comes
out of one account
on which it was
accounted, it
goes to another
account, that
is, in the
system itself
is placed.
These accounts are usually
held in a certain accounting system.
It can be a single system for all of
this accounting.
This is the first scenario.
The second scenario, when we
tax accounting in one account system,
and in the management,
we create our separate account system
and it is by it we will talk about the
pros and cons of both approaches,
it is only important to understand
that the plan of accounts can also differ.
The pre-last moment is the
people we attract for this
job, for this job, for this job.
Theoretically, it could be the same
person or the same group of people
who handle all three accounts,
familiar with all three accounting
policymakers.
And these accounting policies can be
different, but it is difficult to
find such people, they are very
expensive.
Accordingly, the second option, one group of
employees in our company is dealing with
this consideration, the other with this,
the third with this.
As an option, one group is this, and
the other is these two, because they
are very similar.
It also costs some money to the
employer, but here you have to consider, a cleaning-out.
But it is very important to understand
that it is very rare to find a person
who for reasonable money agrees
to make three accounts and not to
make a mistake in three accounts,
because the way of thinking is different,
canons, principles can vary quite seriously.
Therefore, the most common option,
when we have a group of specialists,
fully concentrated
on this accounting system,
they do not have to switch
the rubber in the head
to engage in these accounts.
For these purposes, there is another
group of employees who specialize
in this and who do
it well.
I would like to emphasize that there
are companies where the same people
keep three accounts, but still most
companies choose the second scenario,
individual people for tax, individual
people for financial management.
The last point is the assessment criteria.
We are primarily interested in
the criteria by which we will
put our management accounting
a unit or a tenth on a 10-
point scale.
Management accounting on the 10th
on a 10-point scale is accurate,
prompt, detailed, confidential,
and a very important point
is readability.
This moment is sometimes underestimated, but
it is a very important moment.
It's not just beauty, it's marketing
in the field of
management accounting that
makes information pleasant
for end users to perceive.
The list of evaluation criteria
in management accounting consists
of the following points: speed,
accuracy, detail, confidentiality
and readability.
The standard question, where
to start the creation of management
accounting and management
reporting system in the company.
My experience allows me to argue that
we should start with drawing a list
of our processes, an image of
our business in the form of a set of
interrelated processes.
They can be 10-15, so that you don'
t get lost in the debris.
And after we have developed
a list of the main processes
of our business, we must identify
the key control indicators
for each process, observing
which we will understand in what
state our process is at the
moment.
The logic here is quite simple.
For each process, we can
hang a triangle cost and quality
time, estimating how much we have
spent on resources to complete
the process, how fast or
on time it is performed and
what are the quality characteristics
of this process.
If you draw a general scheme,
for a certain conditional company
you can identify the process
of design, procurement,
production, promotion, branding,
distribution, service
process.
These processes, which are highlighted
in the grey color of this slide,
can be considered primary,
directly forming some
value for a certain target
group of customers.
Or are serving secondary
auxiliary processes
that help these primary
value creates.
For example, human resources management
as a process, the financial
management system itself in the business,
IT control, legal support
of the business and so on.
Yellow processes, cross-sectional, carrying
a service character.
In this slide you see an example of a
company working in the fashion industry.
The company produces shoes.
The business has six main processes,
and for each process a minimum
set of three key indicators
is selected in accordance with
the logic of cost time
quality.
The constructive process.
In addition to knowing how much we'
re boiling in design in total or
percentage of revenue, we monitor
the speed of new product development,
as well as how quickly the
design service creates
new products.
Well, the quality of
the design service can be shown
by the percentage of developments
introduced into production,
not just in the trash, but how
much of the total amount
of design service
products was able to implement
into production and then sell.
The Procurement Process.
Again we know how much we have been
into this process by article and
by listing all the costs.
We know how fast the process
is done, using the indicator
of simple in production due to the
lack of the necessary resources.
Well, an indicator of quality in this
process can be an entry marriage.
The production process is monitored
again through at least three indicators,
namely, production costs.
All the costs that arise
in production, we list
and fold the column here.
The time of the process can be monitored
through indicators, the average
time of execution of orders, additional
indicators that inform us about
what is happening in production,
can be the share of marriage
and productivity
of the work of the
production staff, the same output.
In terms of promotion and branding.
You can calculate how much is spent
on this matter, and use the percentage
indicators of our brand recognition.
Indicators of time, timing, probably,
in this process are not as important
as in other processes.
So is there a sketch here regarding
the sales process?
In addition to costs, we monitor
the turnover of the debt and
the number of violations
of standards in the sales sector.
The company has its own wholesale and
retail, as far as retail is concerned,
there is an indicator of the number
of violations of corporate
standards in stores.
As for the wholesale, the
fate of the wholesale here is more
important than misunderstanding
of corporate standards.
As for the service?
In addition to the cost of service, the
company monitors the speed of elimination
of problems arising from customers, how
quickly we solve problems arising
from customers, and the marriage
that can arise in the process of elimination
of problems, this is also
an indicator that interests us.
Thus, the management accounting
and reporting system starts
with the elaboration of a list
of key business processes
and the elaboration of a list
of key indicators for each
process.
In addition to the key indicators
that we monitor, we also receive
the so-called management
reporting on the table.
The minimum set of documents in
the management reporting system
is called the management
balance sheet.
At the beginning and end of the
period, the so-called report on
profits and losses in the management
APAG and the management report
on cash flow.
In this slide we see the logic of the
connection between these documents.
If the company has worked out for a period
with a red profit, the amount
of this profit increases the size
of the company's own capital
and, accordingly, the amount of assets.
The report on profits and losses
in management accounting is usually
made according to the so-called principle
of accrual.
That is, revenue from shipping, and costs
on the fact of consumption of the
resource, not at the time of payment for
these consumed resources.
But how the company moved money,
this is seen in the third
document, in the report on the
cash flow, which can be done
by two methods, direct and indirect.
Here is a straight line, when we know the
balance of money at the beginning of the
period, we know how much money the
company came over that period and how
many days did not go.
We finally form the
rest.
The minimum set of management
reports is the balance sheet
of the profit and loss
report, the report of
cash flow.
We prepare the same documents in
tax and financial accounting, but
the figures, we said, in balance
sheets, in profit and loss reports
and in cash flow reports
may differ because the accounting
policy is different.
Management accounting contains a
long list of additional reports
as an appendix to the balance sheet
of the profit and loss report of the
money flow report.
These can be sales reports,
debit and accreditorship
reports, and stock
reports.
These are additional large reports
that contain detailed information
about the figure that will be
hanging in the balance sheet or
in the profit and loss report.
You have in the documentation
an example of a management report
of one construction company, in which
you can see the entire list of
indicators of reports that
come to different users with different
frequencies.
The logic is quite simple.
The company first developed
a system of indicators for the
top manager daily, weekly,
monthly, and those he receives
every six months, and then approved
a list of indicators for
second-level managers - the
financial director, commercial
director, chief engineer,
and so on.
It is the same logic that they need
every day, what they need every week,
what they need every month, and what
they need every six months.
In addition to financial reports - this
is the balance of the report on profits
and losses, the report on
money movement with applications,
debitors, lenders, stocks, sales - we
and non-value reports, for example,
in the construction business,
the acts of the works performed - this
is quite common management information,
but not valuable.
Moving on the schedule or not, this
is seen in a separate report,
which is part of the management
reporting package.
Please look at this example
in your context and I think
you can use it as a basis
for writing a key indicators
and reporting system
for your company.
It is important to understand
the user circle – what report
indicators the CEO needs
every day, every week, every
month and every six months,
and what report indicators second-
level managers need.
Again, every day, every week, every
month and once every six months,
once a year.